<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&bovo;"><!-- Do *not* replace kappname-->
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames"><!-- kdebase, kdeadmin, etc -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &bovo; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Aron</firstname><surname>Boström</surname>
<affiliation><address>&Aron.Bostrom.mail;</address></affiliation>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2007</year>
<holder>Aron Boström</holder>
</copyright>
<!-- Translators: put here the copyright notice of the translation -->
<!-- Put here the FDL notice.  Read the explanation in fdl-notice.docbook
     and in the FDL itself on how to use it. -->
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2007-10-16</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&bovo; is a game designed to waste your time.
</para>
</abstract>

<!-- This is a set of Keywords for indexing by search engines.
Please at least include KDE, the KDE package it is in, the name
 of your application, and a few relevant keywords. -->

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>bovo</keyword>
<keyword>Gomoku</keyword>
<keyword>Connect Five</keyword>
<keyword>Connect5</keyword>
<keyword>Board game</keyword>
<keyword>X and O</keyword>
<keyword>Five in a row</keyword>
<keyword>kdegames</keyword>
<keyword>KDE Game</keyword>
<keyword>Puzzle</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&bovo; is a Gomoku (Connect Five, Five in a row, X and O, etc) game for &kde;. The purpose of this game is to connect five of your own pieces in an unbroken row vertically, horizontally or diagonally. The two participating players alternate on placing their marks on the playing board.
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="history">
<title>History</title>
<para>Gomoku, from Japanese 五目並べ, gomoku narabe, <quote>line up five</quote>, is a traditional oriental board game, dating back to the 8th century. It is played with black and white Go pieces on a Go board, where black takes the first turn.</para>
<para>It was soon discovered that black had a huge advantage over white, so a lot of variations have been developed. The most common variation is that only five in a row counts as a win, &ie; six in a row (called an overline) does not count. However, &bovo; doesn't use any of these additional rules.</para>
<para>In Europe the game is traditionally played on a piece of paper, with the first player drawing X's and the second player drawing O's.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="bovo-rules">
<title>Rules</title>
<para>&bovo; rules are equal to the traditional free-style Gomoku rules, with no additional extra rules. However, the playing board is 22×22, instead of 19×19 as in the traditional Gomoku game.</para>

<para>For a more fair game, the two players alternate on who begins. The player who begins does so by placing an X anywhere on the playing field. The players will thereafter alternate in placing their marks on the board.</para>
<para>The game is over when one of the player gets at least 5 marks in a row vertically, horizontally or diagonal.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="bovo-help">
<title>Help for &bovo;</title>
<sect1 id="bovo-help-first-startup">
<title>First Startup</title>
<para>When &bovo; is started the first time, it needs resizing. Resize the game window to desired size, and &bovo; will scale up the playing board.</para>
<para>The first time &bovo; is started it is launched in demo mode, where two AI players battle each other.</para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="bovo-help-auto-saving">
<title>Auto Save</title>
<para>When &bovo; is exited prior to game over, the active game is auto saved. If &bovo; detects an auto saved game at startup, it is restored. If not, &bovo; launches a demo mode.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-starting-new-game">
<title>Starting a New Game</title>
<para>You can allways start a new game with the <guibutton>New</guibutton> button in the toolbar, the <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu entry in the menubar or with the default shortcut <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>.</para>
<para>If a new game is started when a game is already active, it is counted as a loss.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-changing-difficulty">
<title>Changing Difficulty</title>
<para>Changing the difficulty can be done with the <guilabel>Difficulty</guilabel> drop down box in the right end of the status bar, of from the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Difficulty</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu in the menubar.</para>
<para>The effect of changing difficulty takes place immediately.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-switching-theme">
<title>Switching Theme</title>
<para>You can switch the theme of &bovo; from the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Theme</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu in the menubar. The theme is then switched immediately.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-animation">
<title>Animation</title>
<para>Animation can be switched on or off as you like from the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Animation</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu in the menubar.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-undo">
<title>Undo</title>
<para>If you just realized you made a very bad move, you have the possibility to undo your last move from the toolbar, the menubar or with the default undo keyboard shortcut <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>. </para>
<para>You can keep on undoing moves until you reaches the beginning of the game.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-get-a-hint">
<title>Get a Hint</title>
<para>If you don't know what move to make, you can get a hint from the computer player with the <guibutton>Hint</guibutton> button. The game piece suggested by the &bovo; AI then flashes for a brief period of time.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="bovo-help-replay">
<title>Replay Mode</title>
<para>When a game is over, the <guibutton>Replay</guibutton> action is enabled, which starts a replay of the last game.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>


<!-- (OPTIONAL, BUT RECOMMENDED) This chapter should list all of the
application windows and their menubar and toolbar commands for easy reference.
Also include any keys that have a special function but have no equivalent in the
menus or toolbars. This may not be necessary for small apps or apps with no tool
or menubars. -->

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&bovo;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 2002, 2007 &Aron.Bostrom; &Aron.Bostrom.mail;
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2007 &Aron.Bostrom; &Aron.Bostrom.mail;</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;&underGPL;
</chapter>


&documentation.index;
</book>

